So let me quickly code it.
And.
So initially what we'll do is we'll just of course.
So there are two things here, right?
First is whether you want to print the number of steps or you actually want to print the steps.
Let's do both or what we can do is we can just print these steps and then we can realize this, are
realize this.
tower
So what we'll do is we'll write a function called tower of Hanoi and.
Let me write down tower of Hanoi int n
so what we have is we have ABC, rod, helper rod, to rod, from rod
So instead of.
Okay.
If you want to keep ABC only, then, uh, we need to keep them as characters.
Otherwise, we could have taken int, which is from to rod
number
Let's take characters only.
It doesn't matter much.
So character from adored.
Character helper rod, character to rod
This is my recursive.
I mean.
This is my recursive function.
So initially what will happen?
I'll just take n, let’s just take n, according to
this it is initially 10, instead of 10
Let's make it one initially.
Right?
So we'll start from one, then we'll see two, then we'll see three.
So we realize how is this  recursion working?
Actually, I'm going deeper into this because I want you to understand this because it will come very
handy in writing programming later on.
That’s’ why I’m giving much time to this initially, let’s say I'm moving from A.
I want I want B to help.
And I want to move all those N to C so initial state is disk are on A
right.
So what's the first step that I want this to do what’s a sub problem that I wanted to solve?
I want it to.
Place me N-1 disk on, pick it
From this only where I want it to be placed.
I want it to be placed on the.
helper.
so let me place on the helper.
Yeah.
Sorry.
I want it to be placed on the helper.
So then the new two, that is character two will become helper.
Right?
That means.
Place n-1 rod from
to helper rod
by using the to rod.
So basically to becomes the helper and helper becomes the to right.
In a case, it was B and C initially I was placing n on C by using B, but now I am saying it’s N-1
on B using C.
cool now.
When I reached here and I have reached here.
What does it mean?
It means that I have placed N-1 rods on the B by using the C.
So that's what recursion is right? it means.
I'm already placed.
that means we can.
Imagine that all those rods are lined up on B only one rod is remaining on C which was the nth
rod and.
Now what I'll do.
I’ll move this nth rod to B so let's move this nth rod to C, nth rod to C
Or instead of C let’s say to
So what I'll do is I'll just make a move and we’ll say cout from rod
Make this move to to rod.
So from wherever the nth one was there, just move it to the to rod.
And now I have made a move.
I placed it over there.
Now, what we need to do is we have we know that right now there are N-1 rods on the helper rod
right
So we want to pick them from the helper rod and move to the to rod.
by using the current rod, which is the from rod.
So what will be my new recursion here it will be N-1 were on the helper rod, pick them from
the helper road.
Use the current rod which is from.
And place them on the to rod
Right.
And.
Let's write some base cases also.
But what are these base cases?
What's the base case, guys?
Nothing.
If N = 0
If there is no.
rod.
Because you know N is always reducing.
So.
There is no rod, return zero.
And let's see what we get.
If N is 0, okay sorry, not return 0
It's a void function.
I just return that because I don't want to do anything.
So if I have exactly one rod, that means there's only one rod on A.
then I can simply pick that.
Rod from A and place it on C, right?
Let's see what happens on to.
On to what's happening firstly.
I'm picking that rod from two.
Okay.
Let me.
What's happening.
A to B we already discussed this.
I guess A to B
A to C and B to C.
So as you can see, guys, what's happening?
The small rod from A to B the second rod from A to C and the smaller rod again from A to B
But so can you.
Can you realize that.
This the first call for this that means pick one rod from this by using C place it on B
so I'm just placing your directly on B because it is exactly one rod so isn't it a sub problem to solve?
2, first solve one right, to solve one first solve zero, so basically for.
Let's talk about three to solve 3 rods Solve 2 rods to B, so right now what we are saying.
is just ignore 3rd rod.
place the 2 rods on the helper rod.
tha's a sub problem right, so that now.
solve it for 2 and place it on helper rod and by using the final rod, pick the last rod and place it there and then put all
those two back.
So that's what tower of hanoi is doing.
And let's try about three.
Of course you can.
Okay.
Do you want me to print.
What's going on?
Okay, let's print.
as I said
I know it's a little tough to understand.
I'm doing my best here.
So.
Yeah.
Okay.
So three ABC will call 2 ACB, which will call one ABC right.
So that means three.
ABC goes here, calls 2 ACB, which calls one ABC, which calls zero ACB.
But, you know, we don't have to worry about zero.
So I'm just I'll just print it down that we don't get zero value cases.
Yeah.
The three ABC calls 2 ACB calls.
one
ABC.
so now, when, one ABC is called.
Will, just what does it mean?
It just place one rod from A using B to C.
So what we have done is we have just placed that one word from A to C.
And now what will happen?
and now what will happen will go back once because as you can easily see if there's just one rod to place
right now, this will be called which is N-1 helper from to, right.
So again, that will be so for one that will be a zero thing, right.
That's why returning from the base case and now will just place A to B now.
So I don't know if I can.
Like try harder here
But I hope you understood well.
And this is just one small thing to keep in mind.
It is just dividing into sub problems.
And yes, that sub problems are independent of my current problem.
If I have 3 disks and I'm solving it for 2 disks.
Those two disks are actually considering that these three disks are not there.
That the 3rd disk is not there.
to solve that for 2 disk somehow by ignoring the third disk.
And if the two disk is solved, keep the third disk wherever it wants to be.
And now again solve for those two disks by ignoring the third.
And.
Let me comment it.
Let me make it.
So one thing that you'll realize there.
One thing you realize that for 3 there were seven steps that we could have done right for 4.
We have 15 steps for five.
We have 16.
We have.
32, 31.
steps for six.
We have.
63 steps.
So is this something that you can realize that the answer is always equal 2 raise to  the power
N-1
Yeah.
So For 10 it will be 2 raise to the power.
10, 1024 - 1
So you can see that I don't think any human would be able to solve this.
tower of hanoi for 10
I mean, they can solve it but.
They might not solve it as well.
So it's taking 1023 steps.
And if you perform all these steps one by one.
You perform all these steps on by one, you'll realize that, yes, this is the final solution
That's what recursion is doing.
right.
That's how we want to use recursion.
We want we don't want to think how he's doing.
We just want him to do it.
that okay this do.
This I will do.
And then this.
You do it again.
Nothing else.
cool.
So thank you, everyone.
And see you in the next part.